docs/docs/configuration.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 7
---

# Configuration Reference

Complete reference for all MCP Auth Proxy configuration options.

## Command Line Options

### Required Options

| Option           | Environment Variable | Default            | Description                |
| ---------------- | -------------------- | ------------------ | -------------------------- |
| `--external-url` | `EXTERNAL_URL`       | `http://localhost` | External URL for the proxy |

### TLS Options

| Option                | Environment Variable | Default                                          | Description                                                                                        |
| --------------------- | -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `--no-auto-tls`       | `NO_AUTO_TLS`        | `false`                                          | Disable automatic TLS host detection from externalURL (ignored when `--tls-cert-file` is provided) |
| `--tls-accept-tos`    | `TLS_ACCEPT_TOS`     | `false`                                          | Accept TLS terms of service                                                                        |
| `--tls-directory-url` | `TLS_DIRECTORY_URL`  | `https://acme-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory` | ACME directory URL for TLS certificates                                                            |
| `--tls-host`          | `TLS_HOST`           | -                                                | Host name used for automatic TLS certificate provisioning                                          |
| `--tls-cert-file`     | `TLS_CERT_FILE`      | -                                                | Path to PEM-encoded TLS certificate served directly by the proxy (auto-reloads on file changes)    |
| `--tls-key-file`      | `TLS_KEY_FILE`       | -                                                | Path to PEM-encoded TLS private key (requires `--tls-cert-file`, auto-reloads on file changes)     |

### Authentication Options

#### Password Authentication

| Option                      | Environment Variable      | Default | Description                                                                                  |
| --------------------------- | ------------------------- | ------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `--no-provider-auto-select` | `NO_PROVIDER_AUTO_SELECT` | `false` | Disable auto-redirect when only one OAuth/OIDC provider is configured and no password is set |
| `--password`                | `PASSWORD`                | -       | Plain text password for authentication (will be hashed with bcrypt)                          |
| `--password-hash`           | `PASSWORD_HASH`           | -       | Bcrypt hash of password for authentication                                                   |

#### Google OAuth

| Option                        | Environment Variable        | Default | Description                                           |
| ----------------------------- | --------------------------- | ------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| `--google-client-id`          | `GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID`          | -       | Google OAuth client ID                                |
| `--google-client-secret`      | `GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET`      | -       | Google OAuth client secret                            |
| `--google-allowed-users`      | `GOOGLE_ALLOWED_USERS`      | -       | Comma-separated list of allowed Google users (emails) |
| `--google-allowed-workspaces` | `GOOGLE_ALLOWED_WORKSPACES` | -       | Comma-separated list of allowed Google workspaces     |

#### GitHub OAuth

| Option                   | Environment Variable   | Default | Description                                                                                                                      |
| ------------------------ | ---------------------- | ------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `--github-client-id`     | `GITHUB_CLIENT_ID`     | -       | GitHub OAuth client ID                                                                                                           |
| `--github-client-secret` | `GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET` | -       | GitHub OAuth client secret                                                                                                       |
| `--github-allowed-users` | `GITHUB_ALLOWED_USERS` | -       | Comma-separated list of allowed GitHub users (usernames)                                                                         |
| `--github-allowed-orgs`  | `GITHUB_ALLOWED_ORGS`  | -       | Comma-separated list of allowed GitHub organizations. You can also restrict access to specific teams using the format `Org:Team` |

#### Generic OIDC

| Option                      | Environment Variable      | Default                | Description                                                  |
| --------------------------- | ------------------------- | ---------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `--oidc-configuration-url`  | `OIDC_CONFIGURATION_URL`  | -                      | OIDC configuration URL                                       |
| `--oidc-client-id`          | `OIDC_CLIENT_ID`          | -                      | OIDC client ID                                               |
| `--oidc-client-secret`      | `OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET`      | -                      | OIDC client secret                                           |
| `--oidc-allowed-users`      | `OIDC_ALLOWED_USERS`      | -                      | Comma-separated list of allowed OIDC users (exact match)     |
| `--oidc-allowed-users-glob` | `OIDC_ALLOWED_USERS_GLOB` | -                      | Comma-separated list of glob patterns for allowed OIDC users |
| `--oidc-provider-name`      | `OIDC_PROVIDER_NAME`      | `OIDC`                 | Display name for OIDC provider                               |
| `--oidc-scopes`             | `OIDC_SCOPES`             | `openid,profile,email` | Comma-separated list of OIDC scopes                          |
| `--oidc-user-id-field`      | `OIDC_USER_ID_FIELD`      | `/email`               | JSON pointer to user ID field in userinfo endpoint response  |

##### OIDC User Matching

You can use both exact matching and glob patterns for OIDC user authorization:

- **Exact matching** (`--oidc-allowed-users`): Users must match exactly
- **Glob patterns** (`--oidc-allowed-users-glob`): Users are matched against [glob patterns](https://github.com/gobwas/glob)

**Examples:**

```bash
# Exact matching
--oidc-allowed-users "user1@example.com,admin@company.org"

# Glob patterns - allow all users from example.com
--oidc-allowed-users-glob "*@example.com"

# Combined exact and glob matching
--oidc-allowed-users "specific@user.com" \
--oidc-allowed-users-glob "*@example.com"
```

### Server Options

| Option         | Environment Variable | Default  | Description                  |
| -------------- | -------------------- | -------- | ---------------------------- |
| `--listen`     | `LISTEN`             | `:80`    | Address to listen on         |
| `--tls-listen` | `TLS_LISTEN`         | `:443`   | Address to listen on for TLS |
| `--data-path`  | `DATA_PATH`          | `./data` | Path to the data directory   |

### Repository Options

| Option                 | Environment Variable | Default | Description                                                                                                           |
| ---------------------- | -------------------- | ------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `--repository-backend` | `REPOSITORY_BACKEND` | `local` | Storage backend for OAuth state. Supported values: `local` (embedded BoltDB), `sqlite`, `postgres`, or `mysql`.       |
| `--repository-dsn`     | `REPOSITORY_DSN`     | -       | Connection string passed directly to the SQL driver. Required when `--repository-backend` is `sqlite/postgres/mysql`. |

`local` uses an embedded BoltDB file under `--data-path`. SQL backends run migrations automatically via GORM; the DSN must be valid for the chosen driver (examples below). The deprecated value `sql` is no longer accepted—select the concrete driver instead.

```bash title="DSN examples"
# sqlite
--repository-backend sqlite --repository-dsn "file:data/mcp-auth.db?cache=shared&mode=rwc"

# postgres
--repository-backend postgres --repository-dsn "postgres://user:pass@hostname:5432/database?sslmode=disable"

# mysql
--repository-backend mysql --repository-dsn "user:pass@tcp(hostname:3306)/database?parseTime=true"
```

### Proxy Options

| Option                 | Environment Variable | Default | Description                                                                                           |
| ---------------------- | -------------------- | ------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `--proxy-bearer-token` | `PROXY_BEARER_TOKEN` | -       | Bearer token to add to Authorization header when proxying requests                                    |
| `--proxy-headers`      | `PROXY_HEADERS`      | -       | Comma-separated list of headers to add when proxying requests (format: Header1:Value1,Header2:Value2) |
| `--trusted-proxies`    | `TRUSTED_PROXIES`    | -       | Comma-separated list of trusted proxies (IP addresses or CIDR ranges)                                 |

For practical configuration examples including environment variables, Docker Compose, and Kubernetes deployments, see the [Configuration Examples](./examples.md) page.

Commit message:

fix SSE GET panic on HTTP-only backends (#102)
* fix SSE GET panic on HTTP-only backends by adding an http-streaming-only mode that returns HTTP 405

* Implemented Copilot’s feedback:

 - isSSEGetRequest now strips media type parameters before matching, so headers like text/event-stream; charset=utf-8 or with q-values are handled.
 - Expanded TestProxyRouter_HTTPStreamingOnlyRejectsSSE to cover parameterized Accept headers, multiple values, q-values, and to ensure POST + Accept: text/event-stream still passes through to the backend.

* Improve SSE rejection messaging and coverage

* add more test coverage

docs/docs/configuration.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 7
---

# Configuration Reference

Complete reference for all MCP Auth Proxy configuration options.

## Command Line Options

### Required Options

| Option           | Environment Variable | Default            | Description                |
| ---------------- | -------------------- | ------------------ | -------------------------- |
| `--external-url` | `EXTERNAL_URL`       | `http://localhost` | External URL for the proxy |

### TLS Options

| Option                | Environment Variable | Default                                          | Description                                                                                        |
| --------------------- | -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `--no-auto-tls`       | `NO_AUTO_TLS`        | `false`                                          | Disable automatic TLS host detection from externalURL (ignored when `--tls-cert-file` is provided) |
| `--tls-accept-tos`    | `TLS_ACCEPT_TOS`     | `false`                                          | Accept TLS terms of service                                                                        |
| `--tls-directory-url` | `TLS_DIRECTORY_URL`  | `https://acme-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory` | ACME directory URL for TLS certificates                                                            |
| `--tls-host`          | `TLS_HOST`           | -                                                | Host name used for automatic TLS certificate provisioning                                          |
| `--tls-cert-file`     | `TLS_CERT_FILE`      | -                                                | Path to PEM-encoded TLS certificate served directly by the proxy (auto-reloads on file changes)    |
| `--tls-key-file`      | `TLS_KEY_FILE`       | -                                                | Path to PEM-encoded TLS private key (requires `--tls-cert-file`, auto-reloads on file changes)     |

### Authentication Options

#### Password Authentication

| Option                      | Environment Variable      | Default | Description                                                                                  |
| --------------------------- | ------------------------- | ------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `--no-provider-auto-select` | `NO_PROVIDER_AUTO_SELECT` | `false` | Disable auto-redirect when only one OAuth/OIDC provider is configured and no password is set |
| `--password`                | `PASSWORD`                | -       | Plain text password for authentication (will be hashed with bcrypt)                          |
| `--password-hash`           | `PASSWORD_HASH`           | -       | Bcrypt hash of password for authentication                                                   |

#### Google OAuth

| Option                        | Environment Variable        | Default | Description                                           |
| ----------------------------- | --------------------------- | ------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| `--google-client-id`          | `GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID`          | -       | Google OAuth client ID                                |
| `--google-client-secret`      | `GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET`      | -       | Google OAuth client secret                            |
| `--google-allowed-users`      | `GOOGLE_ALLOWED_USERS`      | -       | Comma-separated list of allowed Google users (emails) |
| `--google-allowed-workspaces` | `GOOGLE_ALLOWED_WORKSPACES` | -       | Comma-separated list of allowed Google workspaces     |

#### GitHub OAuth

| Option                   | Environment Variable   | Default | Description                                                                                                                      |
| ------------------------ | ---------------------- | ------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `--github-client-id`     | `GITHUB_CLIENT_ID`     | -       | GitHub OAuth client ID                                                                                                           |
| `--github-client-secret` | `GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET` | -       | GitHub OAuth client secret                                                                                                       |
| `--github-allowed-users` | `GITHUB_ALLOWED_USERS` | -       | Comma-separated list of allowed GitHub users (usernames)                                                                         |
| `--github-allowed-orgs`  | `GITHUB_ALLOWED_ORGS`  | -       | Comma-separated list of allowed GitHub organizations. You can also restrict access to specific teams using the format `Org:Team` |

#### Generic OIDC

| Option                      | Environment Variable      | Default                | Description                                                  |
| --------------------------- | ------------------------- | ---------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `--oidc-configuration-url`  | `OIDC_CONFIGURATION_URL`  | -                      | OIDC configuration URL                                       |
| `--oidc-client-id`          | `OIDC_CLIENT_ID`          | -                      | OIDC client ID                                               |
| `--oidc-client-secret`      | `OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET`      | -                      | OIDC client secret                                           |
| `--oidc-allowed-users`      | `OIDC_ALLOWED_USERS`      | -                      | Comma-separated list of allowed OIDC users (exact match)     |
| `--oidc-allowed-users-glob` | `OIDC_ALLOWED_USERS_GLOB` | -                      | Comma-separated list of glob patterns for allowed OIDC users |
| `--oidc-provider-name`      | `OIDC_PROVIDER_NAME`      | `OIDC`                 | Display name for OIDC provider                               |
| `--oidc-scopes`             | `OIDC_SCOPES`             | `openid,profile,email` | Comma-separated list of OIDC scopes                          |
| `--oidc-user-id-field`      | `OIDC_USER_ID_FIELD`      | `/email`               | JSON pointer to user ID field in userinfo endpoint response  |

##### OIDC User Matching

You can use both exact matching and glob patterns for OIDC user authorization:

- **Exact matching** (`--oidc-allowed-users`): Users must match exactly
- **Glob patterns** (`--oidc-allowed-users-glob`): Users are matched against [glob patterns](https://github.com/gobwas/glob)

**Examples:**

```bash
# Exact matching
--oidc-allowed-users "user1@example.com,admin@company.org"

# Glob patterns - allow all users from example.com
--oidc-allowed-users-glob "*@example.com"

# Combined exact and glob matching
--oidc-allowed-users "specific@user.com" \
--oidc-allowed-users-glob "*@example.com"
```

### Server Options

| Option         | Environment Variable | Default  | Description                  |
| -------------- | -------------------- | -------- | ---------------------------- |
| `--listen`     | `LISTEN`             | `:80`    | Address to listen on         |
| `--tls-listen` | `TLS_LISTEN`         | `:443`   | Address to listen on for TLS |
| `--data-path`  | `DATA_PATH`          | `./data` | Path to the data directory   |

### Repository Options

| Option                 | Environment Variable | Default | Description                                                                                                           |
| ---------------------- | -------------------- | ------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `--repository-backend` | `REPOSITORY_BACKEND` | `local` | Storage backend for OAuth state. Supported values: `local` (embedded BoltDB), `sqlite`, `postgres`, or `mysql`.       |
| `--repository-dsn`     | `REPOSITORY_DSN`     | -       | Connection string passed directly to the SQL driver. Required when `--repository-backend` is `sqlite/postgres/mysql`. |

`local` uses an embedded BoltDB file under `--data-path`. SQL backends run migrations automatically via GORM; the DSN must be valid for the chosen driver (examples below). The deprecated value `sql` is no longer accepted—select the concrete driver instead.

```bash title="DSN examples"
# sqlite
--repository-backend sqlite --repository-dsn "file:data/mcp-auth.db?cache=shared&mode=rwc"

# postgres
--repository-backend postgres --repository-dsn "postgres://user:pass@hostname:5432/database?sslmode=disable"

# mysql
--repository-backend mysql --repository-dsn "user:pass@tcp(hostname:3306)/database?parseTime=true"
```

### Proxy Options

| Option                 | Environment Variable | Default | Description                                                                                           |
| ---------------------- | -------------------- | ------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `--proxy-bearer-token` | `PROXY_BEARER_TOKEN` | -       | Bearer token to add to Authorization header when proxying requests                                    |
| `--proxy-headers`      | `PROXY_HEADERS`      | -       | Comma-separated list of headers to add when proxying requests (format: Header1:Value1,Header2:Value2) |
| `--http-streaming-only` | `HTTP_STREAMING_ONLY` | `false` | Reject SSE (GET) requests and keep the backend operating in HTTP streaming-only mode                  |
| `--trusted-proxies`    | `TRUSTED_PROXIES`    | -       | Comma-separated list of trusted proxies (IP addresses or CIDR ranges)                                 |

For practical configuration examples including environment variables, Docker Compose, and Kubernetes deployments, see the [Configuration Examples](./examples.md) page.
